[Music]
you know what we're gonna play this
review at a higher difficulty we're just
going to do the entire thing without
using the S word you know the one and if
you don't just remember the first scene
in Jurassic Park when the dinosaur gets
loose and starts chewing on the guy and
Muldoon's shouting orders yeah that one
we can go without that word because when
you get right down to it that's not what
splatoon is about sure it centers around
and online for on for experience we're
taking out enemies is certainly do your
tactical benefit but if all you're doing
is being a hunter-killer and neglecting
the actual state of the battlefield
they're going to lose splatoon is about
one thing eight and in true Nintendo
fashion those three letters in that one
concept gets polished tweaked altered
and elaborated on into something truly
impressive
whether you're a kid or a squid both
states fall under the umbrella of
inkling a brilliant choice for a name
since it not only wraps up that
dichotomy with a bow but also indicates
the whole package is a completely new
idea from a genesis of blocks of tofu
spewing ink around a square comes a game
about speculative evolution where the
squids defeated the octopi for the right
to grow legs take on an anthropomorphic
form and build cities that look a hell
of a lot like Shibuya you've got the
fashioned consciousness of the world
ends with you the rebellious tag the
world mentality of a jet set radio in a
lobby area that shows you just how
miiverse integration should be done best
way to cool off from a strenuous bout of
ink flinging is by running around and
just throwing yaz and particularly
interesting bits of art which is to say
anything that doesn't have Squidward in
it by this point
but let's dig into the gameplay shall we
eight squids and/or kids enter four
emerge victorious by putting their ink
all over everything
ink the floors because that's how you
win include walls because even if you
don't get credit for them at the end
there's still a tactical consideration
and allow you to use the verticality of
these maps to your advantage
ink your opponents since the time it
takes them to respawn means there's that
many seconds with one fewer guns spewing
the opposing color the more you ink the
faster you build up your special meter
allowing you access to your massive
attacks like turning into a huge
invincible Kraken or unleashing a large
terrain piercing acoustic attack called
the killer whale if I mention this game
loves fish puns
because loves fish puns you distribute
your ink via variety of weapons some
designed for close-range like the huge
freaking paint rollers you've probably
heard were Opie to mid-range rapid
firearms designed to look like super
soakers or airbrushes to long-range slow
firing chargers for finding a nice
sniper's perch and covering your allies
sure seems to be using plenty of terms
from that genre that won't be named huh
well how many of those games let you
turn into a squid you need to climb up a
wall and getting the squid right up
there need to get the hell away from
some dope with a roller
squid back the way you came need to
ambush an incoming enemy
chill out in the squid form you're
nearly invisible great in your way
squids fit through oh and it's speed
you're reloading too
one mechanic one trigger innumerable
facets
and that's just where things begin to
diverge first off yes there's no voice
chat in the game frankly I don't miss it
one bit since you have right on the
gamepad a map updated in real time that
shows the entire battlefield your color
your enemy's color and the positions of
your allies if you can't figure out your
next move based on that data guess what
you've got bigger problems than not
being able to yell at your teammates
about what they're doing wrong turf war
matches our scant three minutes long
which has been determined by science to
be the optimal duration any longer and
you'd lose that hectic sense of urgency
any shorter and you'd be left with too
much unint
territory little cause to engage the
opponent's honestly how much
coordination do you need for those three
minutes if you're with a team of
weakling Inklings chances are you
wouldn't have won had you been able to
bark commands and eventually racist
invective at them anyway even in ranked
mode you're not going to need to school
your noobs as it's not even available
until a player reaches level 10 by which
point they've played through several
hours of turf wars and should be able to
handle themselves ranked battles play by
a different set of rules though as the
teams vie for control of a particularly
attractive land called the splat zone
and must hold that area for the duration
of a countdown it mixes up strategy
rather significantly the squid beacons
which came with my favorite Kraken
rubber are fairly useless in turf wars
but deploying them near the splat zone
allows my allies to jump right back into
the fray faster after respawning and
regardless of our current positions
needless to say I know my strategy and
from what I've enjoyed ranked thus far
my allies do as well this particular
mode wasn't available at launch which
made some people rather upset because
it's quite good it was however available
four days after launch as Nintendo
seemed to be rolling out features to
compensate both for a lack of initially
available content and keep interest on
their box during an otherwise sparse
summer season and then without even the
faintest hint of that elusive Zelda
title for the Wii U it's a mildly
controversial decision but it's hard to
categorize the game even at the outset
is anything less than fun at least the
servers have been mostly stable too
despite getting utterly hammered by a
heavy turnout the occasional lag spike
can wreck your game and eject you from
the match but those have been few and
far between even on this floating chip
shop we call home
[Music]
one particular wrinkle that helps with
the replay value is the daily refresh
and improved stock of the Outfitters
than the aptly named booyah bass fish
pond where a band of shopkeepers will
constantly critique your style and
freshness as your level improves an
online play new and more powerful gear
will appear with a variety of stat
boosting parameters like increased
movement speed reduced ink consumption
or a number of stealth tricks each piece
of gear aside from looking funky and/or
dope also has a number of secondary
slots according to its level which
develops sub abilities through exp gain
in battles and I haven't even mentioned
the single-player campaign yet here's a
point where I don't need the S word $1
the solo splatoon experience is more
akin to a platformer that just happens
to have a gun while there's certainly
some octobot forces to be inked with
extreme prejudice
most of the action here is from a brand
of running jumping climbing and huge
freaking bosses that wouldn't feel out
of place in the Mario Galaxy game but
which feel like a natural extension of
the mobility centric elements of the
entire ink mechanic it's not a terribly
long or a fruitful quest with just over
a couple dozen stages and some alternate
versions of stock weapons to unlock the
playing through it will make you a more
effective and agile combatant from the
multiplayer and then you get to redo
most of it amiibo challenges though
we'll get to those later
it's easy to say there were high
expectations for this game
after all it's Nintendo's biggest new IP
since Pikmin it's been a long 14 years
to say the least but splatoon has
managed to become something more than
just Nintendo made a no we agreed
on this not gonna say it it's not about
the guns anyway it's not the ink it's
about using the ink for stealth and
controlling key choke points on the
battlefield it's about using the ink as
a tool for getting up walls and giving
your suffix K plane and a chance to
reload you can't do that with bullets
and this being Nintendo their unique
interpretation on the genre comes
complete with a top-flight soundtrack
interesting well modeled characters in
the lair of adorableness that makes the
whole thing immediately accessible and
an ironic ly fun even if you can't tell
the guy next to you that the square is a
weapon for needs a mother for
picking it
[Music]